implementation.md, before:

# Implementation

ECMAScript4MPS is developed using https://tc39.es/ecma262/ documentation as reference,
or one of its preceding version. In particular the *structure* aspect comes from the
syntax highlighted into the *ECMAScrpt Language:...* chapters.

## Production parameters

A complete implementation of the language will require also to check where keywords like `yield`, `return`, `await` are permitted.
For examplanation about production parameters [Yield, etc] see https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-grammar-notation. ECMAScrpt4MPS uses the corresponding interfaces (`HasYield`, `HasIn` etc.) for that.

Basically a leaf production that can be called for example with or without `Yield`
it just asks to its parents going upwards in the hierarchy the value for its
parameters, in this case if `Yield` is present or not.

As an example take a look at the test `ReturnAllowedInFunctionOnly`. Here the `return`
keyword is used in two contexts:
1. directly in a script, where it can't be used.
1. inside the body of a function, where it can instead be used.

The concept is the same, a `JSReturnStatement`, but when the two statements ask
parent if the `return` production parameter is present:
1. the first one reach `JSProgram` that returns false, hence the error.
1. while the second one reach `JSFunctionDeclaration` that returns true and the statement
has no errors.

Few concepts need to implement one the the interfaces used to implement production
parameters. Many productions just *pass* the received parameters to all of its
alternatives, these is implemented navigating the hierarchy until we find a
concept that implements the `Has___` interface we are interested in.

`JSProgram` will always be reached when the searched intefaces is not found, thus `JSProgram` implements all interfaces
used for production parameters, returning `false` for all of them.

Commit message:

Add documentation for scope resolution implementation

implementation.md, after:

# Implementation

ECMAScript4MPS is developed using https://tc39.es/ecma262/ documentation as reference,
or one of its preceding version. In particular the *structure* aspect comes from the
syntax highlighted into the *ECMAScrpt Language:...* chapters.

## Production parameters

A complete implementation of the language will require also to check where keywords like `yield`, `return`, `await` are permitted.
For examplanation about production parameters [Yield, etc] see https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-grammar-notation. ECMAScrpt4MPS uses the corresponding interfaces (`HasYield`, `HasIn` etc.) for that.

Basically a leaf production that can be called for example with or without `Yield`
it just asks to its parents going upwards in the hierarchy the value for its
parameters, in this case if `Yield` is present or not.

As an example take a look at the test `ReturnAllowedInFunctionOnly`. Here the `return`
keyword is used in two contexts:
1. directly in a script, where it can't be used.
1. inside the body of a function, where it can instead be used.

The concept is the same, a `JSReturnStatement`, but when the two statements ask
parent if the `return` production parameter is present:
1. the first one reach `JSProgram` that returns false, hence the error.
1. while the second one reach `JSFunctionDeclaration` that returns true and the statement
has no errors.

Few concepts need to implement one the interfaces used to implement production
parameters. Many productions just *pass* the received parameters to all of its
alternatives, these is implemented navigating the hierarchy until we find a
concept that implements the `Has___` interface we are interested in.

`JSProgram` will always be reached when the searched intefaces is not found, thus `JSProgram` implements all interfaces
used for production parameters, returning `false` for all of them.

## Scope resolution

The `ScopeProvider` should be used to resolve scope for its children only---it is not really suitable to provide scope to outside components.

In the past, some hacks were used (like passing `child=null` or `index=size` in `getScope()`).
This is an unidiomatic usage and should be deprecated.

To provide scope to outside components, use `JSBindingsProvider` concept, instead.
Its only method `getBindings()` should return all bindings provided to parent scope.

For more examples:
1. Check how `JSVariableStatement` uses `getBindings()` of its children (`JSIVariableDeclaration`) to implement `getScope()`.
1. Check how `JSSimpleVariableDeclaration` returns itself if `getBindings()` implementation.
1. Check how `JSPatternVariableDeclaration` delegates this task to its pattern, which can return multiple bindings.
